[exporter/elasticsearch] Add support for IncludeSourceOnError in config (#39468)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib: exporter/elasticsearchexporter/README.md

> [!NOTE]
> The `flush::interval` config will be ignored when `batcher::enabled` config is explicitly set to `true` or `false`.

#### Bulk indexing error response

With Elasticsearch 8.18+, a new [query parameter `include_source_on_error`](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk#operation-bulk-include_source_on_error) is supported.
This configuration allows users to receive the source document in the error response, if there were any parsing errors in the bulk request.

In this exporter, the equivalent configuration is also named `include_source_on_error`.

> - `enabled` (default=false): Enables bulk index responses to include source document on error. Requires Elasticsearch 8.18+. WARNING: if enabled, users are responsible for sanitizing the error responses themselves as they may contain sensitive information.
> - `compatibility_mode` (default=true): Backward compatible option for older Elasticsearch versions, to avoid logging sensitive data. If set to true, `enabled` is ignored and the error reason is discarded from bulk index responses entirely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `include_source_on_error`:
  - `enabled` (default=false): Enables bulk index responses to include source document on error. Requires Elasticsearch 8.18+. WARNING: if enabled, Elasticsearch Exporter may log error responses containing request payload. This may cause sensitive data being exposed in logs.
  - `compatibility_mode` (default=true): Backward compatible option for older Elasticsearch versions, to avoid logging sensitive data. If set to true, `enabled` is ignored and the error reason is discarded from bulk index responses entirely.
```
- A layer of nesting to be consistent with the rest of readme.
- Changed the wording for sensitive information a bit. It is only a security issue if es exporter user doesn't like request payload in logs, e.g. the person who operates es exporter doesn't own the data being sent through it.

> [!NOTE]
> The `flush::interval` config will be ignored when `batcher::enabled` config is explicitly set to `true` or `false`.

#### Bulk indexing error response handling

With Elasticsearch 8.18+, a new [query parameter `include_source_on_error`](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk#operation-bulk-include_source_on_error) is supported.
This configuration allows users to receive the source document in the error response, if there were any parsing errors in the bulk request.

> In this exporter, the equivalent configuration is also named `include_source_on_error`.

Reviewer: version requirement should be clearly stated

Author: Sounds good to me.

> [!NOTE]
> The `flush::interval` config will be ignored when `batcher::enabled` config is explicitly set to `true` or `false`.

#### Bulk indexing error response

With Elasticsearch 8.18+, a new [query parameter `include_source_on_error`](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk#operation-bulk-include_source_on_error) is supported.
This configuration allows users to receive the source document in the error response, if there were any parsing errors in the bulk request.

In this exporter, the equivalent configuration is also named `include_source_on_error`.

- `include_source_on_error`:
  - `enabled` (default=false): Enables bulk index responses to include source document on error. Requires Elasticsearch 8.18+. WARNING: if enabled, Elasticsearch Exporter may log error responses containing request payload. This may cause sensitive data being exposed in logs.

>   - `compatibility_mode` (default=true): Backward compatible option for older Elasticsearch versions, to avoid logging sensitive data. If set to true, `enabled` is ignored and the error reason is discarded from bulk index responses entirely.

Reviewer 2: I'm afraid it's not clear how this works or how to use this.

1. With `include_source_on_error::compatibility_mode` set to `true`, if error reason is not returned in the response what is the information that is returned in the response? How does this change compared to current behavior? I'm looking at https://github.com/elastic/go-docappender/pull/229/files but still struggling to understand.

2. If user wants to enable the option `include_source_on_error`, they need to set `include_source_on_error::enabled` to `true` AND set `include_source_on_error::compatibility_mode` to `false`? This is awkward. User should not need to change one option so that the other one works.

Author: 1. Since the exporter is using `go-docappender@v2.9.0`, the default behavior is already to [discard the error reason](https://github.com/elastic/go-docappender/pull/229/files#diff-c7cec697c2474f331487a79c052f6150eca5c9a2162a74094df972d831e8223aR513-R527). I believe @carsonip may have better context regard this.

2. I agree with this, which was why I thought to name it `include_source_on_error::discard_error_reason` and default to `false`. But this would alter the existing default behavior.

Reviewer 2: > Having them as separate bools have an added benefit that we can deprecate this `compatibility_mode` option in the future without affecting True and False.

This is a good argument, thanks for mentioning this.

Perhaps it's fine to keep these two options then. How about changing the behavior to the following:

1. When user does not set either `include_source_on_error::enabled` or `include_source_on_error::compatibility_mode`, use compatibility mode (as this PR does currently).
2. When user sets `include_source_on_error::enabled` to either `true` or `false`, then the exporter uses that value, ignoring the default `include_source_on_error::compatibility_mode: true` (so that it is not required for user to also set `compatibility_mode: false` for the `enabled` to be in effect).
3. When user explicitly sets `include_source_on_error::compatibility_mode: true`, do as in 1.
4. When user explicitly sets `include_source_on_error::compatibility_mode: false` without setting `include_source_on_error::enabled`, that should be a validation error.
5. When user explicitly sets `include_source_on_error::enabled` to either `true` or `false` AND sets `compatibility_mode` to `false`, use the `enabled` value.
6. When user explicitly sets `include_source_on_error::enabled` to either `true` or `false` AND sets `compatibility_mode` to `true`, that's a validation error.

To implement this, it might be needed for both properties to be of type `*bool` (needs verification).

Reading what I just wrote, I'm not sure if it's not too complicated. Do you think it makes sense?

Reviewer 2: Actually, I'm afraid the above approach would still not make it possible to override configuration in YAML.

If the base config is:

```yaml
exporters:
  elasticsearch:
    include_source_on_error:
      enabled: true
```

It is not possible to switch to compatibility mode by overriding this YAML, because user would have to unset the `enabled` property.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should go back to the three state boolean option `include_source_on_error` of type `*bool`. I think it can still be overridden in YAML with `include_source_on_error: null`?

Reviewer 3: > Perhaps we should go back to the three state boolean option include_source_on_error of type *bool. I think it can still be overridden in YAML with include_source_on_error: null?

+1, this sounds like the cleanest solution to me.

Reviewer: +1 on using *bool. Thanks for looking into it.
